---
title: Mark A. Pollack
date: 2016-09-20 16:31:00 Z
permalink: "/faculty/mark-pollack"
layout: page
---

Biography
Mark A. Pollack is Professor of Political Science and Law and Jean Monnet Chair at Temple University, where he also serves as Director of Temple’s new Global Studies Program and major. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1995, and taught at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (1995-2004) and the European University Institute in Florence, Italy (2000-2002) before coming to Temple.
His research agenda focuses on the role of international institutions and international law in regional and global governance. His past research has examined the delegation of powers to the supranational organizations in the European Union, governance of the transatlantic relationship, the global regulation of genetically modified foods, and the “mainstreaming” of gender and environmental issues in international organizations. His current research includes a research project (with Jeffrey Dunoff) on international judicial practices, as well as a forthcoming symposium (in the International Journal of Constitutional Law) and a book project on the United States’ ambivalent support for international law.
Prof. Pollack is the author of The Engines of European Integration: Delegation, Agency and Agenda Setting in the EU (Oxford University Press, 2003), and co-author (with Gregory C. Shaffer) of When Cooperation Fails: The Law and Politics of Genetically Modified Foods (Oxford University Press, May 2009). He is also editor or co-editor of eight books, including most recently Interdisciplinary Perspectives on International Law and International Relations: The State of the Art (with Jeffrey L. Dunoff, Cambridge University Press, 2013), and Policy-Making in the European Union, 7th edition (with Helen Wallace and Alasdair Young, Oxford University Press, 2015).
He has also published in a number of leading political science and law journals, including International Organization, European Journal of International Relations, Review of International Organizations, Annual Review of Political Science, European Political Science, Journal of Common Market Studies, Journal of European Public Policy, Comparative Political Studies, Comparative European Politics, West European Politics, Boston College Law Review, Minnesota Law Review, Temple International and Comparative Law Journal, American University International Law Review, International Journal of Constitutional Law, and Feminist Legal Studies.
At Temple, he teaches courses on International Relations, International Law, Ethics and International Relations, the European Union, and the brand-new Introduction to Global Studies course.